# #2. Header files (.h files)

Say you want to author a type named **MyClass**. In C#&mdash;if it's a simple case not involving partial classes&mdash;you'd author that class in just one file, probably called `MyClass.cs`, right?

Here's the *usual* practice when it comes to authoring **MyClass** in C++.

* First you have a thing known as a *header file* (or a *header* for short). That file has the `.h` extension, so you can call it a *.h file*, too. Its filename will probably be `MyClass.h`. In that header you outline just the basic shape of **MyClass**: you say what the class's name is, and you say what the names are of the class's variables and methods (and a few other details).
* Then you have a thing known as an *implementation file*. And that file has the `.cpp` extension, so you can call it a *.cpp file*. Its filename would probably be `MyClass.cpp`. That's the file in which you put the *implementation* of the methods of **MyClass**; the methods that you only *mentioned* in the header.

Although, for methods that are very simple (say, one that just returns the value of a variable), you might opt to put that implementation in the header instead of in the implementation file.

In fact you can choose to put *all* of your implementation in the header. And not have an implementation file at all. You might do that if **MyClass** is so simple that it feels like overkill to use two files for it.

Headers mean a bit more work for the C++ developer. But they do have a purpose. We'll look at that, as well as how and where to use them, in future.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#1. Why C++?](001.md)|[#3. Data members, and member functions](003.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
