# #3. Data members, and member functions

We'll return to header files soon. Before then, let's have a few posts dipping our toes into some terminology, syntax, and a little code!

Last time, hoping to ease you in from the world of C#, I used the terms *variables* and *methods* in the context of a C++ class. That wasn't quite right of me. If we're talking C++ in general, then a class has *members*. It has *data members* (variables, loosely speaking), and it has *member functions* (methods, loosely speaking).

Now, if we're talking [C++/WinRT](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/) in particular, then that brings in [Windows Runtime](https://docs.microsoft.com/uwp/api/) (WinRT) terminology. When WinRT uses the term *method*, it's talking about the publicly-callable interface methods that you implement on your runtime class. So if we're talking C++/WinRT, then a hypothetical **MyRuntimeClass** C++ class will have some member functions (that's a C++ term) that implement its methods (that's a WinRT term). And it'll probably also have some member functions that *don't* implement methods; they're just member functions like any plain old C++ type has (perhaps they're just some private helper functions, or whatnot).

Anyway, hopefully that explains why *method* and *member function* aren't strictly the same thing when it comes to C++. Analogously, *runtime class* (a WinRT term) and *class* (a C++ term) aren't exactly the same thing, either. But we can return to that distinction when we get into implementing runtime classes with C++/WinRT.

Next time: code!

For a list of posts, see [Bite-sized C++](../README.md).
