# #4. Dots and arrows

This time let's look at a little bit of syntax. Say that you have a variable named *myRecording*, of type **Recording**. First, here's the familiar C# way of using that variable.

```csharp
myRecording.ArtistName = "Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart"; // C#
```

We know that that's called *dotting into* a variable to access its members. The example above assigns a Unicode string literal to the **ArtistName** property of *myRecording*. Here's the same thing ported to modern C++.

```cpp
myRecording.ArtistName(L"Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart"); // C++
```

We're still dotting into *myRecording*. But because properties aren't part of the C++ language, we have to use functions to achieve the same idea. So the C# **ArtistName** string property becomes the C++ **ArtistName** function-that-takes-a-string. When you're porting to C++/WinRT from C#, it'll become second nature to you to replace an assigning equals sign with parentheses. Also, ANSI (not Unicode) strings are the default in C++. So we need to prefix our string literal with `L` to tell the compiler that we mean a Unicode string. That's another simple mechanical replacement.

Truthfully, the C# **ArtistName** string property becomes *two* C++ **ArtistName** functions. As well as the one shown above (which takes a string and returns nothing) there's another that takes nothing and returns a string. They serve as the setter and the getter. Technically in C++, a function that modifies the value of a data member is called a *mutator*. And a function that returns the value of a data member is called an *accessor*.

Dotting into variables is very common in modern C++, because these days C++ variables nearly always exist on the stack. It's rare to see C++ variables that are allocated on the heap (aka *free store*). But if you *do* see a heap variable, then that's a pointer, and you don't dot into it. You use the arrow notation instead, like this:

```cpp
myRecording->ArtistName(L"Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart"); // C++
```

From the syntax in that last example, we can infer that *myRecording* isn't a **Recording**; it's a *pointer to a* **Recording**. At some point we'll talk about *why* things are mostly put onto the stack these days, and we'll go into pointers some more.

|Prev|Next|Index|
|-|-|-|
|[#3. Data members, and member functions](003.md)|[#5. Dots and double colons](005.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
