# #5. Dots and double colons

How would you write out the full name of the [WinUI](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/apps/winui/) [**Button**](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/winui/api/microsoft.ui.xaml.controls.button) class, including its namespace name?

For C#, you'd write **Microsoft.UI.Xaml.Controls.Button**, right? Using dots to separate the namespace segments like that.

There *are* some places in a C++ project (and even more places in a [C++/WinRT](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/) project) where you'll see dots separating namespace segments. But those cases are the exception, so we'll leave those for some other time. Instead, it's more common in C++ to use a double colon (::) between namespace segments. You've probably seen that. As in **Microsoft::UI::Xaml::Controls::Button**.

That double colon is known as the *scope resolution operator*. You can read it as, more or less: "*Which* **Button**? The **Button** in the scope (or context) of the **Controls** namespace; *which* **Controls** namespace? The **Controls** namespace in the scope of the **Xaml** namespace…", and so on, right to left, until you get to the top-level, hopefully unambiguous, **Microsoft** namespace.

Here's another way can use the scope resolution operator. You've almost certainly seen this kind of thing if you've looked at any C++ code that calls [Win32](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/) APIs.

```cpp
::WaitForSingleObject(hEvent, INFINITE);
```

Without the leading scope resolution operator there, you'd be running the risk of calling some local function that happened to be named **WaitForSingleObject** (should that function be present, or ever be added in future) instead of the Win32 [**WaitForSingleObject**](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/synchapi/nf-synchapi-waitforsingleobject) function that you intended to call. But if you prefix a Win32 API name (or in fact the name of any global function) with the scope resolution operator, then you guarantee to call the global function that you meant to call. It might be a bit paranoid (I mean, how likely is it that someone will write their own local **WaitForSingleObject** function?). But it's safe. So it's up to you whether you do that.

Next time we'll return to why headers exist, and how to use them.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#4. Dots and arrows](004.md)|Coming Monday|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
