# #6. Including a header file (Part 1)

Remember the C++ version of **MyClass** from [#2. Header files (.h files)](002.md)? We said that (usually) you describe the functions in the header, but you put their implementations in the implementation file. Why bother separating things out like that?

Let's say you're a software vendor with a library of math functions that incorporate your proprietary algorithms (the hard-won fruit of your expensive R&D efforts). And you've implemented the functions in a class named **MathLibClass**. Traditionally, you'd provide to your customers a header file, a static-link library, and a [`.dll`](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/dlls/dynamic-link-libraries). The header file describes the functions, so your customers know the name of each function, what it returns, and what parameters it takes. In their project, your customers link the static-link library so that the build process can translate from those function names to entry points within the `.dll`. And your customers ship the `.dll` with their app, since that contains the implementations of the functions&mdash;but only in a machine-readable (not a human-readable) form. You've provided your customers with an SDK, but your intellectual property (IP) is intact.

In C#, though, it's relatively easy for anyone to get a view of your source code (IP) within the assembly that you ship, unless you obfuscate it.

Now let's say I'm a customer who buys that C++ math function SDK (the one that contains **MathLibClass**). How do I use the header in my project? Like this:

```cpp
#include <MathLibClass.h>
```

The *hash sign* (#) before the `include` tells us that it's a directive to the preprocessor (other examples include `#define` and `#ifdef`, to name just two). Once you've directed the preprocessor to replace the include with the contents of the specified C++ header, all the functions described in that header then come into scope so that you can call them. But which file do you put that include in? We'll discuss the options next time.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#5. Dots and double colons](005.md)|[#7. Including a header file (Part 2)](007.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
