# #6. Including a header file (Part 2)

This time let's talk about how to include a C++/WinRT header file. And our scenario is that we want to write some asynchronous code. We won't go into *exactly* how to write asynchronous code here (we'll save that for another time). Here we'll just focus on what type we want, and what header gives us access to that type.

So, as you know, asynchronous Windows APIs have been all the rage since Windows 8. In a [C++/WinRT](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/) project (whether it's UWP or Project Reunion), that means that you'll commonly be needing the [**Windows::Foundation::IAsyncAction**](https://docs.microsoft.com/uwp/api/windows.foundation.iasyncaction) interface. That's the type that pops up all the time when you're doing async.

But before you can use the **Windows::Foundation::IAsyncAction** type, you need to make your project aware of it. To do that, you include a header file. And in C++/WinRT, the header file that you include is *named for the namespace* of the type you want. **IAsyncAction** is in the **Windows::Foundation** namespace, so we do this:

```cppwinrt
#include <winrt/Windows.Foundation.h>
```

Notice the use of dots rather than double colons in the include directive. That's one of those exceptions I mentioned in [#5. Dots and double colons](005.md). And that's simply because `Windows.Foundation.h` (which lives inside a folder named `winrt`) is a filename. And it's traditional to use dots in filenames.

That header file is part of the C++/WinRT language projection (the projection of Windows Runtime APIs into Standard C++). Each such header file contains projections of the APIs in the namespace for which the file is named. So this header file gives us access to everything in the **Windows::Foundation** namespace.

A little more about including headers next time.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#6. Including a header file (Part 1)](006.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
