# #8. Including a header file (Part 3)

We showed this example last time:

```cppwinrt
#include <winrt/Windows.Foundation.h>
```
If the header file isn't part of your project (it's an SDK header, or it's not in your project for some other reason), then use the angle-bracket syntax shown above. If the header *is* part of your project, then you can replace the angle-brackets with quotation marks (") so that Visual Studio will find it more quickly (and will find the one you intended). The *set* of paths searched is the same; the difference is really just the *order* of the paths that the preprocessor searches for the header file.

A C++ project has a thing called a *pre-compiled header*. That's the file in your project that's typically named `pch.h`. It usually contains just a bunch of include directives (and then you typically include `pch.h` in all your project's `.cpp` files). Every now and again you have to change `pch.h` to add a new include directive in there. When you build after changing `pch.h`, the compiler has to process it, and cache the results. But most of the time when you build, you *haven't* changed `pch.h`, so the compiler saves time by using that cache.

Another advantage is that the types in any header you include in `pch.h` are visible to all of the files in your project. When you're including a C++/WinRT namespace header (such as `winrt/Windows.Foundation.h`), include it in `pch.h`, and use angle-brackets.

On the other hand, if you include a header in `MyFile.cpp`, then the types are visible only within `MyFile.cpp`. If you include a header in `MyFile.h` then the types are visible within `MyFile.h` and within any file that includes `MyFile.h`.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#7. Including a header file (Part 2)](007.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
