# #9. Linking, and the linker

In this post let's address a letter sent in by a reader, remarking on how common and annoying C++ linker errors are. So this post and next post let's talk about what linking is, what a linker is, and how to avoid (and deal with) linker errors.

Linking is something that happens while you're building your project. It involves taking the pieces of object code produced by the compiler, and *linking* them into an executable. Linking is done by the tool called the *linker*. More concretely (although a little simplistically), you can consider it the linker's job to find the implementations of the functions you call. If the linker sees you calling a function, but it can't find the implementation of that function, then you'll see errors such as *error [LNK2019](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/error-messages/tool-errors/linker-tools-error-lnk2019): unresolved external symbol*.

If that function is one that you forgot to implement in your project, then you just need to implement it.

Or it might be a Win32 function. If you want to call the [**GetObject**](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/wingdi/nf-wingdi-getobject) function, for example, then that topic tells you that you need to include the `Windows.h` header, so that the compiler can do its job; but also that you need to link the `Gdi32.lib` static-link library so that the linker can do its job.

You can use project **Properties** in Visual Studio to tell the linker what libraries to link. Or you can use a preprocessor directive instead, like this:

```cpp
#include <windows.h>
#pragma comment(lib, "Gdi32")
int num = ::GetObject(/* arguments go here */);
```

The pragma directive in the example above gives the linker the piece of object code it needs to resolve the call to **GetObject**.

Strictly speaking, the real implementation of **GetObject** is in a `.dll` that your app loads at run-time. The static-link library contains logic to load and call into that `.dll`. But that's a good enough "implementation" for the linker's purposes.

Next time, more about linker errors.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#8. Including a header file (Part 3)](008.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
