# #10. Linker errors

Last time (in [#9. Linking, and the linker](009.md)), we mentioned the *error [LNK2019](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/error-messages/tool-errors/linker-tools-error-lnk2019): unresolved external symbol*, which is a linker error.

If you see that linker error in the context of a Win32 function, then you'll know that you forgot to link `Gdi32.lib`, or whatever lib is mentioned in the API topic's Requirements section.

It's also very common in a [C++/WinRT](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/) project to see a linker error about a Windows Runtime API. The fix there is to include the correct C++/WinRT projection header for the API. What's happened is that you've included some *other* header that has satisfied the compiler that the name of the Windows Runtime API you're calling *exists*. But the important header is, like we said in [#7. Including a header file (Part 2)](007.md), the header that's *named for the namespace* that contains the API you want to call. That's the header that contains a stub implementation of the API; again, just enough of an "implementation" to forward the call to the real API inside the Windows Runtime.

With C++/WinRT you don't *need* to stop every time you call an API, and ask yourself whether you've included the right header. You can just wait till you're done, and then leave it to the compiler and linker to find any omissions for you. If you haven't included a header file that's even in the right *ballpark* for an API, then the **compiler** will let you know that it's never even heard of such-and-such an API. If you haven't included the header file *that matches the namespace of the API*, then the **linker** will let know that it doesn't have an implementation for such-and-such an API. Either way, you'll soon become fluent at recognizing the patterns, and knowing what to do. Which is to include the header that's *named for the namespace* that contains the API specified in the error message.

Also see [Why is the linker giving me a "LNK2019: Unresolved external symbol" error?](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/faq#why-is-the-linker-giving-me-a--lnk2019--unresolved-external-symbol--error-).

We'll talk much more about C++/WinRT in the future.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#9. Linking, and the linker](009.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
