# #12. Why not accept the dot operator everywhere?

Another reader question was about C++'s use of the dot operator (for accessing the members of a stack variable), and its quite different arrow operator (for accessing the members of a heap variable). "Why can't the C++ compiler be just a little smarter, and allow the developer to always use the dot operator, and then substitute in the arrow operator when dealing with an object on the heap?"

I think this is a great question, and I'd put it in the class of questions that occur to us when it just seems obvious what we *mean* (even if that's not quite exactly what we wrote). It's particularly galling when even the compiler's error message *makes it clear that it knows what we mean*; but it's still forcing us to make some minor syntactic change before we can move forward.

In the case of dot versus arrow, the arrow does at least help the person reading your code to spot where the pointers are. Also, the arrow operator can be overloaded (meaning, making the operator do something different), whereas the dot operator can't. So an arrow is a sign that something *just might* be going on there *other than* direct member access. Being able to use the dot for a pointer, and having the compiler assume you meant arrow, *and then sometimes* not only arrow but some overload for arrow, might just be too confusing/unsafe for both the compiler and the human reader.

Besides, these days pointers and the arrow operator are quite rare (even including the *this* pointer, which we'll discuss soon). So you likely won't run into the arrow operator much anyway.

Plus, I do feel that compilers are in the right here by insisting that we meet them half-way. The developer stays strictly within the lines of the grammar, and the compiler turns that unambiguously expressed intent into actions that can be safely, reliably, and correctly repeatedly at great speed.

Next time, a word about the difference between classes and structures in C++.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#11. Why not choose Rust over C++?](011.md)|[#13. Classes and structures are *almost* the same thing in C++ (Part 1)](013.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
