# #14. Classes and structures are *almost* the same thing in C++ (Part 2)

So here's how you'd make **MathLibClass::SquareOf** public (remember, it's private by default):

```cpp
class MathLibClass
{
public:
    float SquareOf(float);
};
```

And you could make **MathLibStruct::SquareOf** private by using the `private` access specifier in much the same way (remember, it's public by default). Next time (and the time after), we'll look a bit more closely at how you use `public`, `private`, and `protected` access specifiers.

Because of the extra little bit of syntax shown above, it's convenient and common (and tasteful) to use structures instead of classes in short C++ code examples where everything's meant to be public. Like I said last time, in every other respect, classes and structures *are the same thing*. Structures are not just for storing data. Both classes and structures can have member functions, and data members, can be split into `.h` and `.cpp` files, and they both support inheritance and polymorphism and encapsulation and all of that good stuff. They're *the same thing* (except for default member access).

Also, if you look under the covers at Microsoft's [Component Object Model (COM)](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/com/component-object-model--com--portal) (the technology on which the Windows Runtime is based), you'll see that what we refer to as COM interfaces are in fact C++ structures. Standard C++ doesn't have an *interface* type. And the developers of COM chose to represent a COM interface as a structure so that the methods would be public (as COM methods need to be) with the least possible source code. Also, and for the same reason, many of the types in [C++/WinRT](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/) are actually structures where you might reasonably expect them to be classes.

You can still, loosely speaking, call a structure a "class" if you like; they're only different technically. And if you hear someone using the term "class", you can safely take that to apply to both classes and structures (unless, of course, they're talking specifically about some detail that relates to the member access difference between the two).

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#13. Classes and structures are *almost* the same thing in C++ (Part 1)](013.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
