# #15. Access specifiers (public and private)

Consider this (correct, but not concise) structure:

```cpp
struct MathLibStruct
{
private:
    void APrivateMemberFunction();
    float m_aPrivateDataMember;

public:

public:
    void APublicMemberFunction();
    void AnotherPublicMemberFunction();

public:
    void YetAnotherPublicMemberFunction();
    float m_aPublicDataMember;
};
```

Once you introduce an access specifier, it's good for any and every member that follows it (unless or until you introduce a *different* access specifier). I say *different* because there's nothing stopping you redundantly repeating the *same* access specifier as many consecutive times as you like (as I did above). Can you identify which of the access specifiers in the listing above are redundant [1]?

Course, the whole point of *default* access specifiers is to take advantage of them. I wouldn’t say that the first `public` above is exactly redundant (you can't just delete it, I mean, and have the meaning stay the same). But in that example we could (and arguably should) list our members *in a different order*, and thus eliminate the last `public` that way.

```cpp
struct MathLibStruct
{
    void APublicMemberFunction();
    void AnotherPublicMemberFunction();
    void YetAnotherPublicMemberFunction();
    float m_aPublicDataMember;

private:
    void APrivateMemberFunction();
    float m_aPrivateDataMember;
};
```

For a class, you'd do the reverse. You'd list your `private` members first (omitting any access specifier), then you'd add a `public` specifier, then list your public members.

[1] The second and third `public` are redundant; you can just delete them. *If that were a class*, then the `private` would also be redundant.

With the [Microsoft Build conference](https://mybuild.microsoft.com/home) happening May 25-27 2021, let's take a break from posts for next week. You can register at that link, attend the conference, and explore what’s next in tech and the future of hybrid work.

See you the week after, where we'll pick up the story with `protected` access specifier.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#14. Classes and structures are *almost* the same thing in C++ (Part 2)](014.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
