# #16. Access specifiers (protected)

Did you enjoy the [Microsoft Build conference](https://mybuild.microsoft.com/home) last week? You can watch any sessions you missed at that link. Meanwhile, let's get back to access specifiers.

The `public` access specifier makes a member accessible from outside of its class/struct. For a member function, that means it's callable. For a data member, that means it's readable and writable.

That's pretty dangerous for a data member, though, because it breaks encapsulation. Better to keep a data member private or protected, and instead offer a public member function that accesses (that is, *returns*) the value of that data member. You can also opt to add a member function that *mutates* (changes) the value of the data member. You've then essentially created a property, and you have the option to validate/transform the value on the way out and/or on the way in in ways that you couldn't do with a simple data member (which is essentially a field).

What does *protected* mean, though?

Well, we know that `private` means *accessible only from within the class/struct that owns the member*. The `protected` access specifier broadens that a bit to allow access to the member from within *any class/struct derived (directly or indirectly) from the owning class/struct*.

Oh, and by the way yes, you *can* derive a struct from a class. And vice versa. Classes and structures are the same (except for the default access control thing).

How about some examples of when you might use `protected`? Let's say you're writing a [Direct3D 12](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/direct3d12/directx-12-programming-guide) renderer, and you have a class/struct hierarchy of different kinds of 3D mesh. In the base class/struct of that hierarchy, you might have an [ID3D12Resource](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/d3d12/nn-d3d12-id3d12resource) data member representing a mesh's vertex data. But you need to be able to access that member in types that *derive* from that base type, too (to define the specific derived kind of mesh, and upload that to the GPU). So you just make the data member `protected`, and derived types can access it, too.

Or, for a member function example, similarly you might have a hierarchy of types that represent 3D scenes. Different scene types in the hierarchy need different pixel shaders, and so you might have a `protected` member function that returns a string representing the name of the appropriate compiled shader object (so that some generic code can then load that object by name). And each derived type would provide its own implementation of that `protected` member function, to return the name of the particular pixel shader that it works with. In this example, the member function would also be virtual so that the base class could call the function on itself, and get the right implementation. The C++ `protected` and `virtual` keywords work similarly to the way they work in C#, but we'll likely talk about them again in future.

However, C++ doesn't have `protected internal`, nor `private protected`.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#15. Access specifiers (public and private)](015.md)|[#17. Declarations of member functions](017.md)]|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
