# #17. Declarations of member functions

[*Declarations* and *definitions*](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/cpp/declarations-and-definitions-cpp): two C++ terms that are easy to confuse and/or use interchangeably. Don’t worry if these terms don’t stick (or appeal to you) right away. You don't need to commit them to memory immediately; but it's good to at least be aware that the two terms exist, and that they mean different things.

Let's return to the example of the library of math functions from earlier, but this time we'll take on the role of the library vendor. We'll imagine a **MathLibStruct** structure that has member functions. Somewhere in source code you have to both *declare* and *define* those functions (that's *all* of them&mdash;public, private, and protected). Typically, you *declare* your member functions in the header, like this:

```cpp
// MathLibStruct.h
struct MathLibStruct
{
    float SquareOf(float); // A member function declaration
};
```

Notice that you don't have to give the parameter a name here, because you're not using it here. Declaring a function is essentially just announcing that it exists (by mentioning its name, return type, and parameter types). A declaration just *declares* that the function exists; it doesn't define what the function does.

As a mnemonic for your consideration, I associate the word "declare" (as in "declaration") with going through Customs (think of Oscar Wilde's *bon mot*). The act of *declaring* is merely to *mention* (or to raise awareness). Whereas going into details (*defining*) is a later step, which we'll look at next.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#16. Access specifiers (protected)](016.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
