# #18. Definitions of member functions

We saw last time how and where to *declare* your member functions (as in Customs *declarations*, remember!). Today we'll talk about member function *definitions*.

Typically, you *define* member functions in the implementation file, like this:

```cpp
// MathLibStruct.cpp
#include "MathLibStruct.h"

float MathLibStruct::SquareOf(float f)
{
    return f * f; // A member function definition
}
```

That's the *definition* of the **SquareOf** member function of the **MathLibStruct** struct. You give the parameter a name there, because you're using it there. You also need to be clear which class/struct the function is a member of (the `MathLibStruct::` part).

And all of the above is "typically". But remember that I can choose to put the implementation of any member function in the header. In that case, the header would contain the definition of that member function (and the declaration would be implied). And, as we've said, if you do that with *all* of your member functions, then you can dispense with a `.cpp` file entirely.

```cpp
// MathLibStruct.h
struct MathLibStruct
{
    float SquareOf(float f)
    {
        return f * f; // A member function definition
    }
};
```

Conversely, it's also possible to put a class/struct entirely in a `.cpp` file, and dispense with a *header* entirely. That'd look exactly like the above, except it would be inside `MathLibStruct.cpp`. You can see an example of that in the **App** class in a **Core App (C++/WinRT)** project. The **App** class lives entirely in the `App.cpp` source code file. There's no `App.h` file, because there's no conceivable source code file (in the project or outside of it) that would need to include such a header. The only function that consumes the **App** class is the **wWinMain** entry point, and that lives in `App.cpp`, too.

If *declaring* is merely mentioning (or raising awareness), then *defining* is providing *all the information*. Like a dictionary definition, perhaps.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#17. Declarations of member functions](017.md)]|[#19. Definitions of data members and classes/structs](019.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
