# #19. Definitions of data members and classes/structs

It's not just member functions that have declarations and definitions. Data members and classes/structs have them, too. For data members and classes/structs, we can jump straight to what a *definition* is.

Here are examples of data member and class/struct definitions in the same listing.

```cpp
// MathLibStruct.h
struct MathLibStruct // A class/struct definition
{
    float SquareOf(float); // A member function declaration
    float f1 = 3.14f;      // A data member definition
    float f2{};            // Another data member definition
    float f3;              // This is actually only a data member declaration
};
```

A data member is defined if it has not only a name and a type, but also an initial value.

* So data members *f1* and *f2* are both *defined*, because they're both initialized in this case (even if it's with a default value, as in the case of *f2*).
* Data member *f3* is *declared*; but it's not *defined*, because we haven't given it an initial value. However, you can create an instance of **MathLibStruct** in a way that causes *f3* to be initialized to a default value. The statement `MathLibStruct m{};` will achieve that.
* There are *other* cases where you can *declare but not define* a data member. But those will wait until we've talked about constants and statics.

In future, we'll also talk about the uniform initialization syntax (`{}`) that appears a couple of times above.

And, yes, a class/struct itself is considered defined *even if its member functions are only declared and not defined*. To define a class/struct, specify its data members and their types, and its member functions and their return and parameter types, as shown above.

We'll move on to class/struct *declarations* next time.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#18. Definitions of member functions](018.md)|[#20. Class/struct declarations](020.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
