# #22. Error handling (Part 2)

Last time, we used [**isinf**](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/c-runtime-library/reference/isinf) to test whether a function call had resulted in division by zero.

How practical is it to write conditional code like that each time you perform an operation? By the way, we could just as well be talking about a function that opens a file by name (with a possible file-not-found condition), or any situation where it's possible for an error to occur.

If an error condition is in practice very rare, then verbose (explicit) error-checking like that starts to seem pessimistic. Alternatively, there's a way to program that can be much more concise and optimistic by using C++ *exceptions*. With exceptions, you *don't* check what's returned from calls. Instead, your code is interrupted automatically in the unlikely event that something goes wrong.

So, for your consideration, here are three broad families of ways I can think of that a function might convey success/error status back to the caller (I'm sure there are others).

* We could bake the success/error condition into the return value. That's essentially the idea of special values such as *NaN* and *inf* for floats. More generally, we could return a data structure that contains the return value plus a flag indicating whether or not the value should be interpreted as valid. Doing something in the spirit of that design might work when you're calling functions internally within an application, and when errors are reasonably common.
* Instead of the function's return value being the result of the operation, we could return a success/error code. To send back the result, we could use a non-constant reference parameter, or a pointer to a non-constant value (we'll talk about those C++ language features another time). Again, that might work if errors are fairly common. But this option, and the previous one, would unfortunately mean messing around with our function signature. In any case, this is the design adopted by [COM](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/com/component-object-model--com--portal), and by the [ABI layer of the Windows Runtime](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/interop-winrt-abi).
* Exceptions and exception-handling are the modern C++ ways of dealing with error conditions that are reasonably rare (*exceptional*). You can of course use exceptions when calling your own functions; but also this is the design adopted by Windows Runtime language projections, such as [C++/WinRT](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/).

Next time, we'll take a closer look at that third option: C++ exceptions.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#21. Error handling (Part 1)](021.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
