# #24. Throwing and catching exceptions (Part 2)

Referring to the pseudo-code outline in the previous post&mdash;[#23. Throwing and catching exceptions (Part 1)](023.md)&mdash;an exception can be thrown anywhere within the `try` block. That is, by the code directly *in* the `try` block; or by code in functions called *from* the `try` block; or by code in functions called from functions called from the `try` block; and so on.

You could, in theory, simply guard a single (hypothetical) **App::Run** call with a single `try-catch`, and thereby handle all of an app's exceptions one time and in one place. That's certainly more than can be said for conditions involving the likes of [**isinf**](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/c-runtime-library/reference/isinf), or checking success/error codes.

At any rate, the more code you put (directly or indirectly) into the `try` block, the better value you get from your `try-catch`.

After handling an exception, control passes to the code immediately after the `try-catch`. Control *doesn't* pass to immediately after the throw, nor does it pick up where it left off within the try block.

So much for that pseudo-code, and analyzing it. Next time, we'll look at how to rewrite **XDividedByY** to use exceptions.

Incidentally, so far all of this will seem familiar to folks who know C#. But there is one particular difference (C++ doesn't have C#'s *finally* blocks) that leads to a very interesting discussion about resource management in modern C++, and a thing called *exception safety*. Bear with me for the next few posts while we deal thoroughly with exceptions (in bite-sized chunks). After that we'll move on to resource management. We'll take a journey through the evolution of idiomatic C++ in terms of the shift away from heap allocation and toward stack allocation. This was done by moving (largely) away from pointers, and toward very simple and safe allocation (and automatic freeing) of objects and their resources. More on that in future.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#23. Throwing and catching exceptions (Part 1)](023.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
