# #31. Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct? (Part 3)

Referring to the example of vintage C++ in the previous post, as long as *den* (the denominator) isn't zero, then all is well. As long as *den* isn't zero, we successfully reach the `delete` statement, so we reclaim the memory that we allocated (with the `new` keyword) for the object *m*. And the static *busyCalculating* variable is set back to `false` once we're done calculating.

But if *den* is zero, then an exception is thrown in the middle of **XDividedByY**. And there are two problems with that.

1. In **main**, we don't reach the `delete` statement. And a `new` without a `delete` is synonymous with leaking memory. Iterating over a memory leak for long enough will stress the machine, and eventually bring down the process.
2. In **XDividedByY**, we don't reach the code that sets *busyCalculating* back to `false`. And that means we've messed up the state of the program (because *busyCalculating* says we're busy when in fact we're not).

Those issues mean that our program is not *exception safe*. Let's talk about some C++ resource management techniques that we can use to make our program exception safe. In fact, these techniques are *generally* useful, whether or not exceptions are in the picture.

In the next three posts, we'll address problem #1 above. And to achieve that we'll take a detour to introduce and discuss *automatic variables*. After that we'll return with Part 4 of "Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct?", and address problem #2.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#30. Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct? (Part 2)](030.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
