# #32. Automatic variables (Part 1)

As we'll soon demonstrate, the solution to problem #1 (see [#31. Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct? (Part 3)](031.md)) is to change the variable *m* from a pointer variable to an *automatic variable*. But before showing that, we need to talk about what an automatic variable *is*.

Automatic variables are an old idea, dating back at least to the C programming language. The idea is that storage for an automatic variable is *automatically* allocated and deallocated within a particular scope. Here's an example. Do you remember this member function, from [#18. Definitions of member functions](018.md)?

```cpp
float MathLibStruct::SquareOf(float f)
{
    return f * f;
}
```

The variable *f*, of type float, is a function parameter. But it's also an automatic variable. Its storage is automatically allocated and deallocated within the scope of the function it belongs to (the scope inside the curly brackets). The C++ Standard doesn't mandate that function parameters be allocated on the stack. But C++ compilers *usually* put them on the stack, or in a machine register. Around the same time as the function returns, the stack pointer is moved, and that effectively de-allocates storage for function parameters such as *f*.

Even if in practice automatic variables nearly always imply the stack, you might still prefer to think of and use the term *automatic variable* instead of *stack variable*. "Automatic variable" describes the behavior of being automatically constructed/destructed, which is universally true of the set of variables we're talking about. Whereas "stack variable" describes where they go only *most of the time*. Not necessarily always.

We'll pick this up next time.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#31. Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct? (Part 3)](031.md)|[#33. Automatic variables (Part 2)](033.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
