# #33. Automatic variables (Part 2)

In the example of vintage C++ back in [#30. Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct? (Part 2)](030.md), the *den* variable was automatic. Here's a reminder.

```cpp
try
{
    ...
    float den = 0.f;
    ...
}
```

Like the variable *f* from the previous post, *den*'s storage is automatically allocated and deallocated within the scope it belongs to (the scope inside the curly brackets in which it's declared).

Variables of primitive types (such as float), and data structures, have always usually been automatic in C and C++. What distinguishes modern C++ from the older idioms is that in modern C++ you should reach much more instinctively for automatic variables of class or structure type in places where the older instinct would have been to reach for a pointer variable. The best practice In modern C++ is that if you *can* use an automatic variable (instead of a pointer), then you *should*.

That brings us back to the variable *m* of type pointer-to-**VintageMathLibStruct** in the example of vintage C++ in [#30. Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct? (Part 2)](030.md). The solution to problem #1 (from [#31. Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct? (Part 3)](031.md)) is to change *m* from a pointer variable to an *automatic variable*. Like this.

```cpp
try
{
    VintageMathLibStruct m;
    float den = 0.f;
    float answer = m.XDividedByY(1.f, den);
}
```

We *are* (technically) defining the variable *m* here, because (even though it doesn't look like it) we're initializing it with a value of type **VintageMathLibStruct**.

**VintageMathLibStruct** doesn't have data members. But if it did&mdash;and if those members weren't initialized in the class definition (see [#19. Definitions of data members and classes/structs](019.md))&mdash;then the statement `VintageMathLibStruct m{};` would cause those members to be initialized to a default value. We'll talk more about that syntax, and constructors, in future.

As soon as control exits from *m*'s scope (at the closing curly bracket)&mdash;exits for whatever reason; whether or not an exception was thrown&mdash;the variable *m* is automatically destroyed. And its storage is reclaimed.

We'll finish up with automatic variables next time.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#32. Automatic variables (Part 1)](032.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
