# #34. Automatic variables (Part 3)

We've seen a few examples by now of how a scope determines the lifetime of an automatic variable. You'll recall that a scope is a series of statements inside a set of curly brackets. One example we saw was in the scope of a function body; two were in the scope of a `try` block.

There are other kinds of scopes, including *anonymous scopes* such as the one shown in the example below. Looking at that example, can you see at what point the variable *m* is automatically destroyed, and its storage reclaimed?

```cpp
...

{
    ...
    VintageMathLibStruct m;
    ...
}

...
```

That's right, it's the same as in all the other cases: at the closing bracket. An anonymous scope looks rather strange and bare, but you can introduce one anywhere (and even nest them). Instead of having a very long, unbroken series of statements, you can use an anonymous scope to gather together related variables and the code that manipulates them. That way you'll control exactly where those variables are destroyed. And you'll know that those variables can be used only within their scope. You'll even have the option to declare a different variable, but with the same name, in another anonymous scope.

When an automatic variable of class or structure type goes out of scope, another thing that happens is that its [*destructor*](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/cpp/destructors-cpp) is run (if it has a destructor). If you know C#, then you'll be familiar with [*finalizers*](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/destructors) and/or the [Dispose](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/garbage-collection/implementing-dispose) pattern, which are similar ideas.

But that detail about a destructor being run gives us an idea for how to solve problem #2 (from [#31. Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct? (Part 3)](031.md))&mdash;the problem with that *busyCalculating* variable.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#33. Automatic variables (Part 2)](033.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
