# #35. Automatic variables (Part 3)

Let's recap after our automatic variables detour.

We've taken care of our memory leak. Remember, it was caused by an exception being thrown in combination with the vintage C++ example using pointers, and the `new` and `delete` keywords, and heap allocation. As we saw, idioms are different in modern C++. Instead of pointers, we use automatic variables to avoid problems such as memory leaks. Modern C++ is about simple and safe allocation of objects and their resources (usually on the stack), with automatic freeing.

So we still have problem #2 (from [#31. Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct? (Part 3)](031.md)), with *busyCalculating* potentially being left dangling in an incorrect state.

If you know C#'s [using statement](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/using-statement), then you can probably see how you could write a little wrapper class that sets *busyCalculating* on construction, and resets it on disposal. Then, with a C# `using` statement, you'd create one of those wrappers inside **XDividedByY**. That way, the wrapper object would be disposed even in the event of an exception.

The solution in C++ is similar but (arguably) more elegant. Here's the wrapper class.

```cpp
struct Busy {
    Busy() { busyCalculating = true; }
    ~Busy() { busyCalculating = false; }
};
```

To explain, **Busy::Busy** is a *constructor*; it runs when a **Busy** object is created (constructed). **Busy::~Busy** is the *destructor* of the class. It runs when a **Busy** is destroyed (destructed). So, for an *automatic* **Busy**, that destructor runs as soon as the containing scope ends.

Yes, **Busy** is a trivial-looking class. But it embodies a programming principle of modern C++ that has rich and interesting ramifications. The principle's name is *resource acquisition is initialization* (RAII). Which means that during initialization (construction), the object acquires the resources it's going to use. And during uninitialization (destruction), the object releases those resources. To be confident that resources will be released, we just have to be certain that the destructor will be called, whether or not an exception is thrown. And automatic variables provide that certainty.

In the case of **Busy**, we're not dealing with a resource in the normal sense (memory, or a network socket, or whatnot); the resource here is the temporarily mutated state of the program.

In the next post, we'll show how to use **Busy**.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#34. Automatic variables (Part 3)](034.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
