# #37. Pop quiz!

Today let's have a bit of a pop quiz for a change (*now that we've reached 36 posts, not counting this one*)!

Just take a look at the questions below, and decide for yourself whether you remember the answers to them. If not, feel free to take a look back at [the list of posts](../README.md), see whether you can find the most likely post title that might contain the answer, and see if you can see the answer in there. :)

* In the Windows Runtime they're called *methods*. What do C++ programmers tend to prefer to call them?
* You can access an object's member using either the dot (.) or the arrow (->) operator. What's the distinction?
* What's the purpose and benefit of a header file?
* What's the only difference between a class and a structure?
* To *define* a class (or a struct), what do you have to provide?
* If in your app you use exceptions extensively for conditions that you expect to arise, then how might that affect your app's performance?
* What does the scope resolution operator look like, and what is it for?
* If you get a linker error, is it usually a `.dll` that you need to add to your project properties, or a `.lib`?
* If an exception is thrown, and you catch and handle it, where does program execution continue from after that?
* An automatic variable is destroyed where (relative to the scope it's declared in)?
* Are automatic variables *always* put onto the stack?
* What's a *memory leak*? (clue: it's when a `new` has no corresponding *what*?).
* What does RAII stand for (and mean)? What was the name of our example class that embodied RAII?
* What is *deterministic finalization*?

Next time we'll pick up with some simple string output.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#36. Why doesn't C++ have a `finally` construct? (Part 5)](036.md)|[#38. Writing a string to output (Part 1)](038.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
