# #47. Uniform initialization (Part 1)

How would you describe what this code does?

```cpp
float f1 = 3.14f;
```

How about this code?

```cpp
f1 = 3.14f;
```

That first example declares, defines, and initializes the `float` named *f1*. But it uses `=`, which makes it *look* like an assignment. Incidentally, we could have made *f1* `const` (constant), and we'd have been able to initialize it in the same way (using `=`).

The second example really is an assignment. If we'd made *f1* `const`, then we wouldn't have been able to assign to it.

Sure, the distinction between initialization and assignment is a bit subtle, and probably not too confusing in those examples. In fact we've used the assignment-looking `=` in *all* of the initializations that we've shown so far, and we survived. But there are a number of ways syntactically of doing initialization in C++, and *nearly all of them look like something else*. Some of them look like assignment, some look like a function declaration, some look like a function call. Which seems like a peculiar situation, and one perhaps in search of a remedy.

To make a long story bite-sized, the initialization syntax in legacy C++ does make the code a bit harder to write, read, compile, and debug. So the C++11 standard introduced a general (universal, even) syntax for initialization, and it's known as *uniform initialization*.

We'll look at the syntax for uniform initialization next time.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#46. Range-based `for` (Part 3)](046.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
