# #52. Procedure and policy (Part 1)

These are two terms and ideas that I find quite useful when designing and/or understanding software (especially with C++). So I'll share them here in case they're useful or interesting to you, too. In addition, I'll put these ideas into practice when we return to talking about **std::for_each**.

In a nutshell, *procedure* refers to the mechanical way in which you carry out a task. While *policy* refers to the particular parameters or preferences (out of all the possible options) that you choose to apply while carrying out the procedure.

For example, let's say you have a catalog of products and their prices. You want to apply rounding to the prices. But not to *all* of the prices; and not the *same* rounding. Your *procedure* might be to group the prices into several price ranges, and then apply some rounding *policy* to the prices in each range. If you write that routine in the right way, then even the specifics of where one price range ends and another begins can be part of the policy. In other words, driven by data.

An example of that policy on price ranges could be, "prices under $1 into bucket 1; prices under $10 into bucket 2; prices between $10 and $100 into bucket 3; everything else in bucket 4". The number of buckets, and the breakpoints, are *policy* decisions that inform how a sufficiently generalized and data-driven *procedure* should behave during a particular run. After bucketizing, the specifics of how to round would then also be *policy*; a different policy per bucket, perhaps. For example, do you always take the [floor](https://docs.microsoft.com//cpp/c-runtime-library/reference/floor-floorf-floorl)? Or do you take the **floor** unless the fractional part is greater than one half? Or do you round up to the nearest $10? Or do you apply no rounding at all (perhaps to bucket 1)?

More on this next time.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#51. The **std::for_each** algorithm (Part 1)](051.md)|[#53. Procedure and policy (Part 2)](053.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
