# #53. Procedure and policy (Part 2)

The kind of policy-based design that we talked about last time shows up often in the design of C++; especially in the Standard Library.

Here's an example of a policy from the Standard Library. Let's say you want to fill a container with objects. The **std::vector** below doesn't contain strings (like the *fruit* vector we've seen in previous posts did). Instead, this one contains objects of the hypothetical type **Fruit**.

```cpp
std::vector<Fruit> fruit;
```

To fill that container with fruit, the *procedure* would be to iterate over each item to add, allocate a new instance of **Fruit** to represent the item, and then add that object to the container. The *policy* might be exactly *how* to allocate those objects (on the stack, on a heap, from a pool, or something else). And if the container were written generally enough (as the Standard containers are), then you could pass the allocation policy to the container as a parameter, in the same way that you pass the type of element to it as a parameter. The container would then use the allocation policy that you passed whenever the container needed to allocate a new object.

If you're interested in knowing more about allocators, see [Allocators](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/standard-library/allocators).

What's the takeaway from this discussion of procedure and policy? I think it's that if you want your app to be flexible and customizable&mdash;in a way that requires as little churn as possible to the code&mdash;then it's a great idea to separate out your app's policy code from its procedure code. That way you can easily switch between policies (potentially even at run-time) without even touching your procedures.

We'll put those ideas into practice in the next post, when we return to talking about **std::for_each**.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#52. Procedure and policy (Part 1)](052.md)|[#54. The **std::for_each** algorithm (Part 2)](054.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
