# #54. The **std::for_each** algorithm (Part 2)

Let's think again about the code example in [#51. The **std::for_each** algorithm (Part 1)](051.md).

The goal of that code was to format some text into a list. The *procedure* it used was to iterate through the available formats currently on the Clipboard, and to print out each one in turn. The *policy* it used was to present each line as a bulleted list item; specifically, using plain-text spaces and asterisks.

But that *policy* was baked (in lambda form) into the body of the *procedure*'s loop. It wasn't kept separate. Even worse, you can imagine that we might have other identical lambdas elsewhere in the app (used for printing out lists of other things). Making it difficult to keep in sync all those copies of what's meant to be the same policy. How might we move in the direction of separating policy from procedure there? A first good step would be just to factor that lambda's code into its own function.

To keep it short, this next example goes ahead and prints out the list (rather than returning a string, which is itself a more flexible design). But this example also keeps policy and procedure a bit more separated than before. You could call the single **PrintOne** function from any number of other procedures. And you could change the **PrintOne** function to implement a different policy for formatting list items, without touching any procedure code that calls that function.

```cpp
void PrintOne(winrt::hstring const & item)
{
    std::wcout << L" * " << std::wstring_view(item) << std::endl;
}

void PrintAll()
{
    DataPackageView clipboardContent{ Clipboard::GetContent() };

    if (clipboardContent && clipboardContent.AvailableFormats().Size() > 0)
    {
        std::wcout << L"Available formats on the clipboard:" << std::endl;
        auto formats{ clipboardContent.AvailableFormats() };
        std::for_each(formats.begin(), formats.end(), PrintOne);
    }
    else
    {
        std::wcout << L"The clipboard is empty" << std::endl;
    }
}
```

If **PrintOne** were a more complex function, then we'd also have a testability win. We can test that function more easily than we can test chains of code with lambdas in them. Also, in terms of debugging, seeing the name of the **PrintOne** function on the call stack is much friendlier than seeing the mangled name of a lambda (yes, *name-mangling* is a thing in C++, but perhaps we'll save that for another time).

Lambdas are tremendously useful and interesting things, and we'll look at them again later. Just be mindful of cases where the code in a lambda crosses a boundary between procedure and policy; and consider the possibility of that policy changing in future.

You don't even have to remove the lambda, either. There are cases where it's best to have a lambda that does nothing but call a function that does the work.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#53. Procedure and policy (Part 2)](053.md)|[#55. Zero-initializing a struct](055.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
