# #57. Default member initializers

Here's a variant of the structure we've seen in the last two posts; this time it has more than one data member (but notice that it's still an *aggregate*).

```cpp
struct MyStruct
{
    int Member1 = 99; // legacy initialization
    int Member2{ 99 }; // uniform initialization
};
```

As you can see, the *Member1* and *Member2* data members of **MyStruct** are both initialized to 99. The little bit of syntax that does the initialization is known as a *default member initializer* (and I've shown both the legacy and modern versions of it). The *default* part means (of course) that you have the option to override that suggested initial value, as we'll see.

Here's **MyStruct** in action.

```cpp
int main()
{
    MyStruct myStruct1;
    MyStruct myStruct2{ 1, 2 }; // uniform initialization
    std::wcout << myStruct1.Member1 << L"," << myStruct1.Member2 << std::endl;
    std::wcout << myStruct2.Member1 << L"," << myStruct2.Member2 << std::endl;
}
```

The variable *myStruct1* gets the default values of 99 and 99 for its two data members. But *myStruct2* provides values with which to initialize its data members, thereby overriding those default initial values of 99. For *myStruct2*, the 1,2 initial values are applied member-wise to its public members (and that works because **MyStruct** is an aggregate, as we've said). So the output is 99,99 and 1,2.

Instead of using default member initializers, there are a couple of ways of using *constructors* to achieve the same thing. But either way, if you give initial values to your data members, then you're not relying on users of your types remembering to initialize their variables of those types.

We'll talk about constructors soon. And we'll talk more about that `{ 1, 2 }` syntax next time.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#56. Initializing a struct to *any* value](056.md)|[#58. Initializer lists (Part 1)](058.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
