# #58. Initializer lists (Part 1)

The C++ compiler gives us a construct called an *initializer list*. We saw one being used in the previous post to initialize the members of a **MyStruct** object.

```cpp
MyStruct myStruct2{ 1, 2 };
```

The `{}` notation is the initializer list (and "initializer list" is sometimes shortened to "{}-list").

In the particular example above, the `{}` notation is a form of list initialization known as *aggregate initialization* (because **MyStruct** is an aggregate). But you can use an initializer list (for list initialization) with non-aggregate types&mdash;provided that they have the right constructor(s)&mdash;and it looks exactly the same. We'll talk more about constructors in future.

Incidentally, you'll often see syntax like `MyStruct myStruct2 = { 1, 2 };`. That's valid, although it does incongruously mix legacy-looking initialization with a modern initializer list.

You can use an {}-list for all kinds of other purposes: to initialize an array, for example, or to call a function. The function must expect either an initializer list, or else something that an initializer list can be converted to. Here's an example using [C++/WinRT](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/).

```cppwinrt
#include <winrt/Windows.Storage.Streams.h>

void Write(winrt::Windows::Storage::Streams::DataWriter const & dataWriter)
{
    dataWriter.WriteBytes({ 99, 98, 97 });
}
```

The compiler converts the {}-list syntax into an instance of the C++ Standard Library type [std::initializer_list<T>](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/standard-library/initializer-list-class). That Standard Library object is then converted into the type that the [**DataWriter.WriteBytes**](https://docs.microsoft.com/uwp/api/windows.storage.streams.datawriter.writebytes) method expects.

There's more info about this specific example in [Standard C++ data types and C++/WinRT](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/std-cpp-data-types).

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#57. Default member initializers](057.md)|[#59. Initializer lists (Part 2)](059.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
