# #60. Value types in C++

Let's introduce the concept of *value types*, and examine what that means. In C++, classes and structures (as well as primitive types) are *value types* (by default). That's different from C#, by the way, where classes are *not* value types (but structures *are* value types, by default).

Here's a demonstration of a C++ value type in action (a class, in this case). Since it's C++, this code would behave the same way if I used a structure instead. But using a class is a better contrast with the way classes behave in C#. I'm also using classic initialization syntax below (just this once), because I'll be comparing that line of code with C#.

```cpp
class MyClass
{
public:
    int Count{ 0 };
};

int main()
{
    MyClass myClass;
    MyClass myClassCopy = myClass; // classic initialization
    ++myClassCopy.Count;
    std::wcout << myClass.Count << std::endl;
    std::wcout << myClassCopy.Count << std::endl;
}
```

The type of the *myClassCopy* variable is simply **MyClass**. And because in C++ classes and structures are *value types*, that means that *myClassCopy* is a member-wise *copy* of *myClass* (both of them are automatic variables). Since *myClassCopy* is a copy, when we increment the value of its *Count* member, that has no effect on the *myClass* variable. Consequently, the output is the number 0 followed by the number 1.

If you know C#, then you'll immediately see how that behavior differs from C#. If the line of code `MyClass myClassCopy = myClass;` appeared in a C# project, then *myClassCopy* would in fact *not* be a copy. Instead, the *myClassCopy* variable (which would then be a poor name for it) and the *myClass* variable would both be a fancy kind of pointer (called a *reference*) to *the same* **MyClass** object instance on the managed heap. And so the output *would* be 1 and 1.

Let's pick up that thought next time.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#59. Initializer lists (Part 2)](059.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
