# #63. Modifying via a reference

And now let's add just one more line of code to the example that we showed in the previous post.

```cpp
MyClass myClass;
MyClass& myClassRef{ myClass };
++myClassRef.Count;
std::wcout << myClass.Count << std::endl;
std::wcout << myClassRef.Count << std::endl;
```

All we've added is a line that increments the value of `myClassRef.Count` before printing out the values. And here are the steps that the compiler generates for that line of code.

* Look up the memory address stored in *myClassRef*.
* Consider what type of reference *myClassRef* is (it's still a reference to a **MyClass**).
* So interpret the series of bytes that begin at that memory address as a **MyClass** object.
* And finally, increment the *Count* member of that interpreted **MyClass** object.

And again that interpreted **MyClass** object (the referent) is none other than the *myClass* variable itself. So what we've done is to increment *myClass::Count* (but indirectly, via *myClassRef*). Remember that *myClassRef* doesn't have any storage allocated for it (so it isn't itself a variable in the usual sense). It's just a memory address and a way of interpreting whatever's stored at that address. It just refers to some other variable (some other thing for which storage *has* been allocated).

To print out the value of *myClassRef.Count*, we again look for a **MyClass** object at the memory address stored in *myClassRef*, access that object's *Count* member, and print that out.

So the output is 1 (the value of the *Count* member of the object stored in *myClass*) followed by another 1 (the value of the *Count* member of the object that *myClassRef* references).

Unlike for C#, there's no managed heap in the picture for C++. And, unlike for C#, there aren't two references here. There's *one* automatic variable (whose allocated storage is extremely likely to be sitting on the stack), and there's one reference to that variable.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#62. Accessing via a reference](062.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
