# #70. Passing by constant reference

The only problem with passing by reference to the **MatrixByReference** function that we saw last time is that there's nothing stopping **MatrixByReference** from modifying (via its reference) the value of the *referent* (which was that *matrix* variable defined in the **main** function).

Sometimes&mdash;as with the **AddOneByReference** function that we saw in [#67. Functions that take references (Part 1)](067.md)&mdash;that's what we *want*. We want the function to modify the referent (and we also get the benefit of avoiding a copy).

But what if we want to avoid a copy *without* giving the function free reign to stomp all over our referent? In that case, we need to pass by *constant* reference. Here's the **MatrixByConstantReference** function. Notice the `const` in the parameter's type.

```cpp
void MatrixByConstantReference(XMMATRIX const& matrixParameter)
{
    // matrixParameter can be read but not written
    // Trying to modify it results in error C3490
}

int main()
{
    XMMATRIX matrix{};
    MatrixByConstantReference(matrix); // No copy necessary; matrix protected from modification
}
```

**MatrixByConstantReference** takes a parameter named *matrixParameter* whose type can be read from right to left. *matrixParameter* is a reference to a constant **XMMATRIX**. And a constant *something* is a *something* that can't be modified.

This is passing by constant reference. And it gives us the benefit of cheaply passing around large values, without the worry of accidentally modifying the referent (such modifications, intended or otherwise, are known as *side effects*).

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#69. Passing large values around](069.md)|[#71. Naming conventions (snake_case)](071.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
