# #72. Naming conventions (PascalCase and camelCase)

Pascal case is another popular naming convention in C++ source code. In Pascal case there are no spaces, and every word has an initial capital letter. Here's the same structure as in the previous post, but renamed to use Pascal case.

```cpp
struct MyStruct
{
    int Count();
};
```

If you're implementing a [Windows Runtime](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/desktop-to-uwp-enhance) API (or a Win32/COM one), then Pascal case is called for. At some point we'll talk about using the [C++/WinRT](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/) language projection to implement Windows Runtime types.

I've tended to use Pascal case in my examples so far, simply because I'm accustomed to thinking in terms of Windows Runtime and Win32/COM APIs.

Camel case is Pascal case with an initial lower-case letter. That's the only difference. The initial lower-case letter is the camel's head (which is low); and the embedded upper-case letters look like the camel's humps (which are high). Whereas *Pascal* is the name of a mathematician, so the first letter is upper-case. If you can picture (and remember) those things, then you'll always know the difference.

Here's an example of camel case.

```cpp
struct myStruct
{
    int count();
};
```

Some sources say that camel case is the same as Pascal case. Or that Pascal case is a special case of camel case (and that there are *upper* and *lower* camel cases). I feel that the PascalCase and camelCase described here are easier and clearer than that.

Again, for single-word names, camel case is just a lower-case word; and in those cases it's indistinguishable from snake case.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#71. Naming conventions (snake_case)](071.md)|[#73. Naming conventions (private data members)](073.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
