# #74. Second pop quiz!

We had our first pop quiz after 36 posts. And there have been another 36 posts since that quiz, so let's have another quiz! :)

Same as last time, take a look at the questions below, and decide for yourself whether you remember the answers to them. If not, feel free to take a look back at [the list of posts](../README.md), see whether you can find the most likely post title that might contain the answer, and see if you can see the answer in there.

* Do headers in the C++ Standard Library have `.h` in their name, or not?
* What do **operator<<** and **operator>>** have to do with streams?
* For a C++ Standard Library container, what's the distinction between its **front** and **begin** functions?
* If you know the `var` keyword in C#, what's the keyword in C++ that does something very similar?
* What's the connection between range-based `for` and iterators? Think of the two functions (with particular names) that return iterators.
* Nearly all of the classic syntax for initialization *looks like something other than initialization*. What's the modern solution for that?
* To be flexible and customizable, how should an app approach procedure and policy?
* What's a *lambda expression*?
* When creating a new instance of a structure, what's the syntax for zero-initializing it?
* What's a *default member initializer*, and where does it go?
* What's an *initializer list*?
* In C++, are classes and structures reference types or value types by default?
* What's a *referent* in relation to a reference?
* In terms of passing parameters to functions, what is a *side effect*?
* What are the benefits, and the potential drawbacks, to passing by reference?

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#73. Naming conventions (private data members)](073.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
