# #79. Why you can't re-seat a reference (Part 1)

Consider this bit of code.

```cpp
MyStruct myStruct1;
MyStruct myStruct2;
MyStruct& myStructRef{ myStruct1 }; // myStructRef is seated at this point
++myStructRef.Count; // myStruct1.Count is now 1
```

Let's walk through it. We have a couple of **MyStruct** values, and a **MyStruct** reference (whose referent is the value contained in the variable *myStruct1*). And then we're using the reference to increment `myStruct1.Count` to 1.

So far so good. But then we might think ok, now let's point *myStructRef* at *myStruct2* instead, and increment that. But that would mean re-seating (or re-binding) the reference, and that's not possible. Here's what that might look like if we tried to do it.

```cpp
myStructRef = myStruct2; // myStruct1.Count is now back to 0
++myStructRef.Count; // myStruct1.Count is now 1 again. myStruct2 hasn't changed
```

You might have guessed/expected that the expression `myStructRef = myStruct2` would change *myStructRef* so that it now points to (that is, references) *myStruct2* instead of *myStruct1*. But we must let go of the idea of *ever* changing *myStructRef* in any way. We seated *myStructRef* when we initialized it, and after that there's nothing further we can ever do to modify *myStructRef*. We can only ever use *myStructRef* to modify its referent.

What the expression `myStructRef = myStruct2` actually does is to perform a member-wise assignment of the value *myStruct2* to the value that *myStructRef* references (which is *myStruct1*). In other words, we're assigning *myStruct2* to *myStruct1*, member by member. So that of course sets *myStruct1.Count* back to 0. And then we go ahead and increment *myStruct1.Count* again (since that’s *still* the referent of that reference), so that member ends up at 1 again. And we've only copied from (that is, we've *read*) *myStruct2*; we haven't changed it at all.

More on this next time (including the actual *why* from the post's title, in case you're wondering).

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#78. What it means to *seat* a reference](078.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
