# #80. Why you can't re-seat a reference (Part 2)

Now, imagine that last time I'd shown you this code instead.

```cpp
MyStruct myStruct1;
MyStruct myStruct2;
MyStruct& myStructRef = myStruct1; // myStructRef is seated at this point (via legacy initialization)
myStructRef = myStruct2; // Now that really looks like re-seating (even though it isn't)
```

Using legacy initialization syntax like that is, I think, a bit of a trap. And an unfair trap, which is why I didn't do it.

If someone hadn't read the previous post, then I think they'd look at the equals sign syntax being used above to seat *myStructRef*, and they'd think ah, we're using assignment to seat (or bind) the reference to its referent. And they'd think that on the following line we're doing the same thing; that we're using assignment again to re-seat (or re-bind) the reference to some different referent.

But of course no, we're not using assignment to seat the reference in the first place (even though that's what that confusing legacy syntax *looks like*). Rather, we're using initialization. There's nothing about the uniform initialization that we used in the previous post that invokes the notion of assignment. Here it is again.

```cpp
MyStruct& myStructRef{ myStruct1 }; // myStructRef is seated at this point
```

So this is a good illustration of the difference between initialization and assignment, and of the value of uniform initialization.

Ok, so now we know *that* you can't re-seat a reference. But I still haven't exactly explained *why not*. The reason is that [Bjarne Stroustrup](https://www.stroustrup.com/) was bitten once too often by Algol68's semantics around the syntax of assigning to a reference (sometimes assigning to the referent, sometimes re-seating the reference). And he wanted to avoid similar problems in his language. He *could* have come up with some new and unambiguous syntax, but instead he designed C++ so that a reference, by definition, always references the same object. And that's why you can't re-seat (re-bind) a reference in C++.

An important takeaway here is that, conceptually, a reference *is* its referent (and it's always the *same* referent). That's *conceptually*. From the point of view of the compiler, a reference *is* (typically) a memory address.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#79. Why you can't re-seat a reference (Part 1)](079.md)|[#81. Assign using references](081.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
