# #86 The `this` pointer (Part 1)

The converse of equality is of course *in*equality. But it'll be helpful when we talk about overloading the inequality operator to be familiar with the [`this` keyword](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/cpp/this-pointer) in C++. So let's start to learn about that.

Take a look at this version of **MyStruct**.

```cpp
struct MyStruct
{
    int Count{ 0 };
    void IncrementCount()
    {
        ++Count;
    }
};
...
MyStruct s; // s::Count == 0
s.IncrementCount(); // s::Count == 1
```

In the expression `s.IncrementCount()`, the **Count** that's being incremented is of course **s::Count**. Not some *other* thing called **Count**. And not the **Count** belonging to some *other* instance of **MyStruct**. But in the code inside **MyStruct::IncrementCount**, we refer simply to a thing called "Count". How does the compiler know *which* **Count** we mean?

The answer is that if you're inside a type's member function, and you refer to a token that the compiler can identify as a data member of that same type, then the compiler pretends that you actually said `this->` immediately before the token (unless it has a reason *not* to pretend that, as we'll see next time).

So in this case, the compiler reads **MyStruct::IncrementCount** *as if* we'd written it like this:

```cpp
void IncrementCount()
{
    ++this->Count;
}
```

The `this` keyword feels friendly and colloquial. And it just means: "a pointer to this object; the object you're calling this function on." So `this->Count` means "the Count member belonging to the object on which this member function was called."

You can use `this->` explicitly, or you can let the compiler assume it. But in modern C++, folks tend to omit it whenever they can.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#85 Overloading the equality operator](085.md)|[#87 The `this` pointer (Part 2)](087.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
