# #91 Construct, destruct, copy, and move

We'll soon be discussing constructors in detail (and also some other [special member functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/cpp/special-member-functions)). So in preparation for that it'll be good to introduce (at least at a high level) the important C++ concepts listed in the title of this post.

First, what does it mean to *construct* a C++ object? Construction is about allocating space for a new class or structure object, and initializing its contents so that the object can begin life in a good, logical, and consistent state. The compiler takes care of the allocation. It then calls a special member function called a *constructor* where the initialization takes place. As an author of types, you get the chance to write constructors for them.

Destruction is the opposite of construction. A special member function called a *destructor* is called, and then all the resources that the object occupied are reclaimed, and the object becomes invalid. Again, you can write destructors.

And finally, copying and moving. When you pass by value an object of class or structure type, a copy is made. When you assign one object of class or structure type to another, a copy is made. Some types manage (or represent) resources; so things like deep copying or reference-counting might be in the picture. As the author of such types, you'll want to control *exactly* what happens when they're copied. So you can write special member functions known as *copy constructors* and *copy assignment* operators.

What if, inside a function, you create an object of class or structure type, and return it by value? In older C++ compilers, that means returning a copy, and then destroying the original. But that's expensive and inefficient, so [C++11](https://www.stroustrup.com/C++11FAQ.html) introduced *move semantics*&mdash;the original object is simply *moved* out of the function instead of being copied-and-then-destroyed. To control what a move means for your types, you can write special member functions known as *move constructors* and *move assignment* operators.

We'll talk more about copying and moving in future posts.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#90 Free functions vs member functions](090.md)|[#92 Aggregates](092.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
