# #93 Compiler-generated special member functions

In [#91 Construct, destruct, copy, and move](091.md), we learned that class/structure types can have [special member functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/cpp/special-member-functions) that perform the work of constructing, destructing, copying, and moving objects of that type.

If you don't define them yourself, then the compiler will generate default implementations of those special member functions for you. Here's a structure that doesn't define *any* member functions at all.

```cpp 
struct MyStructCompilerGeneratedFunctions
{
    int Count{ 0 };
};
```

Because it doesn't define them, **MyStructCompilerGeneratedFunctions** is given a compiler-generated constructor and destructor, copy and move constructors, and copy and move assignment operators. The compiler-generated constructor is a *default* constructor&mdash;meaning one that takes no parameters.

The idea of compiler-generated functions is that, if some functions of a class are so trivial to write that their code would nearly be boilerplate, then the compiler will take care of writing them for you.

Here are some ways in which we can create an instance of a **MyStructCompilerGeneratedFunctions**.

```cpp 
int main()
{
    MyStructCompilerGeneratedFunctions s1; // s1::Count == 0
    auto s2{ MyStructCompilerGeneratedFunctions() }; // s2::Count == 0
    MyStructCompilerGeneratedFunctions s3{}; // s3::Count == 0
    MyStructCompilerGeneratedFunctions s4{ 99 }; // s4::Count == 99
}
```

Variable *s3* uses the empty-pair-of-curly-brackets syntax that we first saw in [#55. Zero-initializing a struct](055.md). It's been reasonable up to this point to equate the empty-pair-of-curly-brackets syntax with zero-initialization. But in fact the empty-pair-of-curly-brackets syntax calls the default constructor (where zero-initialization is only what happens *by default*).

And as you can see with *s4*, the compiler allows us to construct a **MyStructCompilerGeneratedFunctions** using uniform initialization (or, strictly speaking in this case, aggregate initialization). But we'll revisit that last point in the next post.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#92 Aggregates](092.md)|[#94 A user-defined default constructor](094.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
