# #98 A default constructor that's explicitly deleted

There are cases where you don't want to define a particular special member function (constructor, destructor, move, or copy) for yourself; and you don't want the compiler to define one for you, either. For those situations, you can [explicitly delete](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/cpp/explicitly-defaulted-and-deleted-functions) a member function.

Here's an example of explicitly deleting the default constructor (using the `= delete` syntax).

```cpp 
struct MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor
{
    MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor() = delete;
    int Count{ 0 };
};
```

With a deleted default constructor, here's what happens when we try creating an instance of a **MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor** in various ways.

```cpp
int main()
{
    MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor s1; // error C2280: attempting to reference a deleted function
    auto s2{ MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor() }; // error C2280: attempting to reference a deleted function
    MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor s3{}; // s3::Count == 0
    MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor s4{ 99 }; // s4::Count == 99
}
```

*s1* and *s2* are not allowed, as you can see, and for the reason specified in the comments.

But **MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor** is an aggregate. And so *s4* still represents a valid way to create a **MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor** object.

The fact that *s3* compiles is the interesting case now. And the explanation for that is quite involved. Yes, **MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor** is an aggregate. And we can't invoke its default constructor, because we deleted it. So the empty-pair-of-curly-brackets syntax has become a degenerate form of aggregate initialization (which, remember, is a form of uniform initialization). If **MyStructExplicitlyDeletedConstructor** were *not* an aggregate (let's say we gave it a private data member, for example, since an aggregate must have only public data members), then the empty-pair-of-curly-brackets syntax would want to invoke the deleted default constructor. And that would cause "error C2280: attempting to reference a deleted function".

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#97 A default constructor that's explicitly defaulted](097.md)|[#99 A parameterized constructor](099.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
