# #100 Static data members

Back in [#19. Definitions of data members and classes/structs](019.md), we saw an example of a data member being *declared but not defined*. And I mentioned that there are other similar cases involving constants and statics. So let's look at what [static](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/cpp/static-members-cpp) and constant data members are, and examine those additional cases.

Imagine you offer banking services via a **SavingsAccount** type that has an *InterestRate* data member. If you offer the same interest rate on all savings accounts, then it would waste memory to have every savings account object carry around an identical interest rate value. Yes, you could make *InterestRate* into a global variable. But it would be more maintainable if we could somehow take the savings account type, and a single, shared value for interest rate, and bundle them together. That's exactly what we can do by making *InterestRate* into a static data member.

```cpp
struct SavingsAccount
{
    static float InterestRate;
};

float SavingsAccount::InterestRate{ .02f }; // Initialize a static outside the type definition.

int main()
{
    std::wcout << SavingsAccount::InterestRate << std::endl;
}
```

For reasons that are to do with linking, you can't *declare* a static data member and *define* it at the same time. So as you can see above, we declare **SavingsAccount::InterestRate** inside the type definition, and we define it by giving it an initial value *outside* of the type definition. Typically, though, the type definition would be in `SavingsAccount.h`, and then we'd define any of its static data members in `SavingsAccount.cpp`.

And as you can see above, we can access **SavingsAccount::InterestRate** without needing an instance of **SavingsAccount** (notice that it's public). And since it's not constant, we could assign to it, too.

So, to recap, a static data member takes on a single value on behalf of the entire type, instead of taking on a value per instance (or object) of a type. Non-static data members are also known as *instance* data members.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#99 A parameterized constructor](099.md)|[#101 Constant data members](101.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
