# #104 Object-oriented concepts (encapsulation)

As you've gathered by now, I anticipate that most readers know C#, and/or similar languages; and likely have even worked with C++ itself to some extent. So I've tried to focus in these posts mostly on things that are good to know about C++ for folks coming to it from other object-oriented languages (while being as complete and detailed as I can in this format, for those who already know some C++).

So some rather obvious topics that I've deferred are the fundamental object-oriented concepts of encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism. Now's a good time to talk about them, so that we can then take a look at things such as deriving one class from another, and what virtual functions are all about.

Let's take encapsulation first.

* This involves the idea of encapsulating together (that is, placing together as if in a capsule) a type's state and the behavior that operates on that state. As we saw in [#3. Data members, and member functions](003.md), a type's state is represented by its data members; and its behavior is represented by its member functions. The `this` pointer (see [#86 The `this` pointer (Part 1)](086.md)) is the means by which the member functions of an object can access the object itself.
* Encapsulation is also the idea of placing the public interface of the type on the surface of that capsule. And hiding away the details of the type's implementation inside the capsule. We saw some of the language facilities that support this idea in [#2. Header files (.h files)](002.md) and [#15. Access specifiers (public and private)](015.md).

Before object-orientation, programming languages didn't have strong abstraction facilities. Nothing prevented the state and behavior that represented any given *abstraction* (a bank account, for example) from being scattered arbitrarily throughout the source code of what could be a very large program. That made readability and maintainability of the program a problem, and tended to lead to bugs. But with encapsulation, you can create the abstraction of a bank account *type*, and keep all bank-account-related state inside that type, together with the behavior that knows the correct ways to use that state. Encapsulation is what keeps the private state and behavior of an object safe from being accessed from anywhere outside of that object (whether from another object of the same type, from another object of a different type, or from global code).

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#103 Constant member functions](103.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
