# #105 Inheritance (generalization and specialization)

Let's say you've written a **Car** class and a **Motorcycle** class. For *both* classes, you've likely implemented state and behavior that models things such as wheels and an engine. So now imagine refactoring at least some of that common wheel-y and engine-y stuff into a more general **WheeledMotorVehicle** class. That would be an example of *generalization*.

You could then say that both **Car** and **Motorcycle** are *specialized* forms of **WheeledMotorVehicle**. And so you would *derive* both **Car** and **Motorcycle** from the common ancestor type **WheeledMotorVehicle**. Derivation implies inheritance. But what exactly do you inherit from your ancestor (also known as your *base type* or *base class*)?

Well, you can choose from two kinds of inheritance. One option is *implementation inheritance*, where any state and behavior (or a subset of it) belonging to **WheeledMotorVehicle** is inherited by a derived class.

```cpp
struct WheeledMotorVehicle
{
    void Drive(){ /* implementation goes here */ }
};

struct Car : public WheeledMotorVehicle
{
};

...
Car c;
c.Drive(); // Calls WheeledMotorVehicle::Drive
```

In the example above, **Car** inherits the implementation of the **Drive** member function from its base class **WheeledMotorVehicle**. Notice the colon (:) syntax&mdash;together with the `public` keyword in this example&mdash;which says that **Car** inherits the public members of **WheeledMotorVehicle**. Incidentally, I didn't make **Drive** constant, because driving a vehicle is bound to change its state.

The other kind of inheritance is *interface inheritance*, where only the declarations (not the definitions) of public methods are inherited from a base class. Very soon we'll have more to say about these two kinds of inheritance (and a little about overriding what's been inherited).

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#104 Object-oriented concepts (encapsulation)](104.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
