# #106 Polymorphism

In C++, a common example scenario of polymorphism is a hierarchy of graphics shape types. So you might have a base **Shape** type. And then **Circle**, **Square**, and **Triangle** types all deriving from **Shape**. The base type **Shape** would introduce a **Draw** method and an **Area** property. And the derived classes would each have their own distinct implementations of what it means to draw themselves, and to calculate their own area.

The magic of polymorphism is that you can write a function that takes a reference to a general **Shape** object, and you can call **Draw** and **Area** on that **Shape** object without knowing or caring whether the object is in fact more specifically a **Square**, a **Circle**, a **Triangle**, or even some **Shape**-derived class that you haven't written yet. The object *itself* knows what type it is, and therefore *it* knows what *form* of **Draw** and **Area** to give you.

The word *polymorphism* means *many forms*. There's one **Draw** call in your function, but there are many *forms* of implementation of **Draw** (or **Area**) that you can end up calling into at runtime, depending on the particular type of **Shape** that's passed to the function.

If **Shape** provides default implementations of all of its methods and properties, then **Shape** is thought of as a *concrete* type. *Concrete* because you can create an instance of one. Just like, more generally, a concrete thing is something that you can look at and hold in your hand. The derived types could then override those default implementations with specialized implementations of their own; and they'd be concrete, too.

Alternatively, **Shape** might be *abstract*. An abstract type lacks the implementation of at least one of its members; and for that reason you can't construct an instance of an abstract type. It's abstract in the sense that it's just an idea (you can't see an idea, nor hold one in your hand). If **Shape** provides no implementation at all, then it's *pure abstract*. A *pure abstract* type is simply a formal declaration of a set of methods and properties. It's a specification for the public interface of a type.

If **Shape** is either abstract or pure abstract, then in order for the derived classes to still themselves be concrete types of **Shape**, they have to make good on the promise of the interface by providing any and all implementations that are missing from **Shape**.

Very soon we'll take a look at a polymorphic setup in practice.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#105 Inheritance (generalization and specialization)](105.md)](104.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
