# #107 More about inheritance

In [#105 Inheritance (generalization and specialization)](105.md), we mentioned that there are two kinds of inheritance&mdash;implementation inheritance and interface inheritance; and we showed an example of implementation inheritance.

When you derive from a concrete type or from a non-pure abstract type, you inherit that type's implementation. So that's implementation inheritance. And we now know that the **WheeledMotorVehicle** type from the code example in [#105 Inheritance (generalization and specialization)](105.md) is concrete. And so is **Car**.

But when you derive from a pure abstract type (also known as an *interface*), there's no implementation to inherit. But you *are* inheriting its public interface. So that's interface inheritance.

For implementation inheritance, the terms *base class* (or *superclass*) and *derived class* (or *subclass*) apply. You're *deriving* the derived class from the base class.

But when it comes to interface inheritance, saying that you're *deriving* from an interface tends to sound wrong. Instead, you say that you're *implementing* that interface.

The [Component Object Model (COM)](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/com/component-object-model--com--portal) (the technology on which the Windows Runtime is based, remember) is all about interfaces (pure abstract types). And so a COM class (or *coclass* for short) will typically use interface inheritance. For example, a coclass might implement the [IErrorInfo](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/oaidl/nn-oaidl-ierrorinfo) interface in order to be able to provide (if asked for it) richer details about an error.

But the rules of COM forbid a coclass from using C++ implementation inheritance to derive from another coclass. Instead, COM provides techniques such as [containment and aggregation](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/win32/com/reusing-objects) to essentially allow one coclass to reuse another. Containment and aggregation are *COM's versions* of implementation inheritance; but they're quite different from the way C++ implementation inheritance works.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#106 Polymorphism](106.md)|[#108 Overriding](108.md)|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
