# #111. Third pop quiz!

So far we've followed the pattern of 36 posts then a pop quiz. So it's now time for our third pop quiz.

Just like before, take a look at the questions below, and decide for yourself whether you remember the answers to them. If not, then feel free to take a look back at [the list of posts](../README.md), see whether you can find the most likely post title that might contain the answer, and then see if you can see the answer in there.

* Do you remember what a temporary object is? You can of course *read* the value of a temporary; but can you *modify* one?
* Is it ok to return from a function any of these things: a reference to a temporary; a reference to a data member; a reference to an automatic local variable?
* If a function returns a non-constant reference, then can the referent be modified via that reference?
* Is it legal to zero-initialize a reference?
* What does it mean to seat (or bind) a reference?
* To the C++ compiler, an object's identity is *what*?
* If two objects have the same values for all of their data members, does it then follow that the two objects have the same identity?
* If two objects have the same identity, does it then follow that the two objects' property values are all the same?
* What is the `this` pointer, and how does it enable encapsulation?
* Name at least two kinds of *special member function*.
* What are the rules that a type has to adhere to in order to qualify as an aggregate?
* Do any of these kinds of functions have a `this` pointer: a non-constant instance member function, a static member function, a constant instance member function?
* Describe encapsulation; inheritance; polymorphism.
* What are the differences between abstract and concrete types?
* Describe the two kinds of inheritance.
* What does it mean to *override* a function?
* What is the purpose of virtual functions?

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#110 A code example of polymorphism](110.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
