# #112. Function overloading

Consider this simple **Border** type.

```cpp
struct Border
{
    void BorderThickness(float left, float top, float right, float bottom) { ... }
};
```

**Border** is meant to be a graphics object that allows you to set the thickness of the strokes that are used to draw it. I'm essentially conflating the ideas of the [**Border.BorderThickness**](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/winui/api/microsoft.ui.xaml.controls.border.borderthickness) property and the [**Thickness**](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/winui/api/microsoft.ui.xaml.thickness) structure, both from WinUI 3.

But much of the time in practice, you'll want the same value for left and right. And the same value for top and bottom. To make it easier to use, and less error-prone, let's have a version of the **BorderThickness** function that takes four values, and another version that takes only two (one value for both left and right; and another value for both top and bottom). And we don't even have to give different names to the two versions. Because [function overloading](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/cpp/function-overloading) allows us to give both versions the same name, as long as the compiler can tell them apart.

Here's how that looks.

```cpp
struct Border
{
    void BorderThickness(float leftAndRight, float topAndBottom) { ... }
    void BorderThickness(float left, float top, float right, float bottom) { ... }
};
```

So *overloading a function* means providing more than one function with the same name but different forms. The different forms are known as the *overloads* of the function. You can overload on number of parameters, or on parameter type(s).

But you can't overload on return type. If you write two functions, with the same name and parameters but returning different types, then you'll be able to write code for which the compiler won't be able to deduce which of those functions you want to call. And for that reason differentiating function overloads by return type alone isn't allowed.

You can overload any kind of function, including constructors and operators.

|Prev|Next|Contents|
|-|-|-|
|[#111. Third pop quiz!](111.md)|Coming soon|[Bite-sized C++](../README.md)|
